README.md, before:

# gps-spoofing-and-ai-detection

This is a Bachelor Thesis researching how an ML algorithm can detect GPS Spoofing attempts. This will be done with IoT Pycom devices receiving GPS signals and communicating it to a different Pycom that will run the ML and try to detect spoofing attempts.

## Pycom Development Environment

This guide will help you set up your development environment for working with Pycom devices (LoPy4, FiPy, etc.).

## Prerequisites

### 1. Python

#### Windows:

1. Download Python from https://www.python.org/downloads/
2. Run the installer
3. **Important:** Check "Add Python to PATH" during installation
4. Verify installation: Open Command Prompt and run `python --version`

#### Linux (Ubuntu/Debian):

```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt install python3 python3-pip python3-venv
python3 --version
```

#### macOS:

Using Homebrew (recommended):

```bash
brew install python
python3 --version
```

### 2. Node.js

Node.js is required for the Pymakr extension to function.

#### Windows:

1. Download LTS version from https://nodejs.org/
2. Run installer with default settings
3. Restart your computer
4. Verify: Open Command Prompt and run `node --version`

#### Linux (Ubuntu/Debian):

```bash
curl -fsSL https://deb.nodesource.com/setup_lts.x | sudo -E bash -
sudo apt install -y nodejs
node --version
```

#### macOS:

```bash
brew install node
node --version
```

### 3. Git

#### Windows:

1. Download from https://git-scm.com/download/win
2. Install with default settings
3. Verify: Open Command Prompt and run `git --version`

#### Linux (Ubuntu/Debian):

```bash
sudo apt install git
git --version
```

#### macOS:

```bash
brew install git
git --version
```

### 4. VS Code

Download and install from https://code.visualstudio.com/

Install the following extensions:

#### Required

| Extension | Publisher | Description |
|-----------|-----------|-------------|
| Python | Microsoft | Python language support, debugging, IntelliSense |
| Pylance | Microsoft | Better Python autocomplete and type checking |
| Pymakr | Pycom | Upload code to Pycom devices, REPL access, device management |

#### Recommended

| Extension | Publisher | Description |
|-----------|-----------|-------------|
| Python Indent | Kevin Rose | Fixes Python indentation |
| GitLens | GitKraken | Enhanced Git integration and history |
| Git Graph | mhutchie | Visualize Git branches |

## Project Setup

### 1. Clone Repository

```bash
git clone git@github.com:SindreWinaes/gps-spoofing-and-ai-detection.git
```

### 2. Create Virtual Environment

Virtual environments keep project dependencies isolated. Make sure you are in the project folder.

```bash
cd gps-spoofing-and-ai-detection
```

**Windows (Command Prompt):**

```cmd
python -m venv venv
venv\Scripts\activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

**Windows (PowerShell):**

```powershell
python -m venv venv
.\venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

> **Note:** If you get a PowerShell execution policy error, run:
> `Set-ExecutionPolicy -ExecutionPolicy RemoteSigned -Scope CurrentUser`

**Linux/macOS:**

```bash
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 3. Open Project in VS Code

Open the project folder in VS Code. It will automatically detect the virtual environment and ask if you want to use it as the Python interpreter - click **Yes**.

If it doesn't ask automatically:

1. Press `Ctrl+Shift+P` (or `Cmd+Shift+P` on macOS)
2. Type "Python: Select Interpreter"
3. Choose the interpreter from your `venv` folder

### 4. Working with the Virtual Environment

**What do I do next time I open the project?**

VS Code remembers your interpreter selection. When you open the project folder again:

1. VS Code automatically uses the correct virtual environment
2. Open a new terminal in VS Code (`Ctrl+`` ` or View → Terminal)
3. The terminal should automatically activate the venv (you'll see `(venv)` in the prompt)
4. If it doesn't activate automatically, you can manually activate it:
   - **Windows:** `venv\Scripts\activate`
   - **Linux/macOS:** `source venv/bin/activate`

**VS Code GUI for virtual environments:**

VS Code shows the current Python interpreter in the bottom status bar (bottom right). Click on it to:

- See which interpreter/venv is active
- Switch to a different interpreter
- Select a virtual environment

**Manually deactivating (optional):**

If you want to manually deactivate the virtual environment, type `deactivate` in the same terminal where you activated it and press Enter. This works the same on all operating systems.

## Pycom Device Setup

1. Connect your device via USB to your computer
2. While in your project folder, look for the Pymakr panel in the sidebar
3. Click "List all devices"
4. Your device should appear - click "Connect"
5. Click "Sync project to device" in the Pymakr panel
6. Press the reset button on your device


## Troubleshooting

**Pymakr commands not working**

- Make sure Node.js is installed and restart VS Code
- Try uninstalling and reinstalling the Pymakr extension
- Check View → Output → Pymakr for error messages

**Device not detected**

- Try a different USB cable (some are charge-only)
- Try a different USB port
- Check Device Manager (Windows) or run `ls /dev/ttyUSB*` (Linux/macOS)

Commit message:

Add Git workflow instructions to README
Added a section outlining the practical workflow for using Git in the project.

README.md, after:

# gps-spoofing-and-ai-detection

This is a Bachelor Thesis researching how an ML algorithm can detect GPS Spoofing attempts. This will be done with IoT Pycom devices receiving GPS signals and communicating it to a different Pycom that will run the ML and try to detect spoofing attempts.

## Practical Workflow with Git
1. Before starting work, pull the latest dev
2. Create your feature branch: git checkout -b feature/your-feature dev
3. Make small frequent commits with clear messages
4. When done, open a Pull Request to dev
5. Have the other person do a quick review
6. Merge to dev and delete the feature branch
7. Periodically merge dev to main with stable milestones.


## Pycom Development Environment

This guide will help you set up your development environment for working with Pycom devices (LoPy4, FiPy, etc.).

## Prerequisites

### 1. Python

#### Windows:

1. Download Python from https://www.python.org/downloads/
2. Run the installer
3. **Important:** Check "Add Python to PATH" during installation
4. Verify installation: Open Command Prompt and run `python --version`

#### Linux (Ubuntu/Debian):

```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt install python3 python3-pip python3-venv
python3 --version
```

#### macOS:

Using Homebrew (recommended):

```bash
brew install python
python3 --version
```

### 2. Node.js

Node.js is required for the Pymakr extension to function.

#### Windows:

1. Download LTS version from https://nodejs.org/
2. Run installer with default settings
3. Restart your computer
4. Verify: Open Command Prompt and run `node --version`

#### Linux (Ubuntu/Debian):

```bash
curl -fsSL https://deb.nodesource.com/setup_lts.x | sudo -E bash -
sudo apt install -y nodejs
node --version
```

#### macOS:

```bash
brew install node
node --version
```

### 3. Git

#### Windows:

1. Download from https://git-scm.com/download/win
2. Install with default settings
3. Verify: Open Command Prompt and run `git --version`

#### Linux (Ubuntu/Debian):

```bash
sudo apt install git
git --version
```

#### macOS:

```bash
brew install git
git --version
```

### 4. VS Code

Download and install from https://code.visualstudio.com/

Install the following extensions:

#### Required

| Extension | Publisher | Description |
|-----------|-----------|-------------|
| Python | Microsoft | Python language support, debugging, IntelliSense |
| Pylance | Microsoft | Better Python autocomplete and type checking |
| Pymakr | Pycom | Upload code to Pycom devices, REPL access, device management |

#### Recommended

| Extension | Publisher | Description |
|-----------|-----------|-------------|
| Python Indent | Kevin Rose | Fixes Python indentation |
| GitLens | GitKraken | Enhanced Git integration and history |
| Git Graph | mhutchie | Visualize Git branches |

## Project Setup

### 1. Clone Repository

```bash
git clone git@github.com:SindreWinaes/gps-spoofing-and-ai-detection.git
```

### 2. Create Virtual Environment

Virtual environments keep project dependencies isolated. Make sure you are in the project folder.

```bash
cd gps-spoofing-and-ai-detection
```

**Windows (Command Prompt):**

```cmd
python -m venv venv
venv\Scripts\activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

**Windows (PowerShell):**

```powershell
python -m venv venv
.\venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

> **Note:** If you get a PowerShell execution policy error, run:
> `Set-ExecutionPolicy -ExecutionPolicy RemoteSigned -Scope CurrentUser`

**Linux/macOS:**

```bash
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 3. Open Project in VS Code

Open the project folder in VS Code. It will automatically detect the virtual environment and ask if you want to use it as the Python interpreter - click **Yes**.

If it doesn't ask automatically:

1. Press `Ctrl+Shift+P` (or `Cmd+Shift+P` on macOS)
2. Type "Python: Select Interpreter"
3. Choose the interpreter from your `venv` folder

### 4. Working with the Virtual Environment

**What do I do next time I open the project?**

VS Code remembers your interpreter selection. When you open the project folder again:

1. VS Code automatically uses the correct virtual environment
2. Open a new terminal in VS Code (`Ctrl+`` ` or View → Terminal)
3. The terminal should automatically activate the venv (you'll see `(venv)` in the prompt)
4. If it doesn't activate automatically, you can manually activate it:
   - **Windows:** `venv\Scripts\activate`
   - **Linux/macOS:** `source venv/bin/activate`

**VS Code GUI for virtual environments:**

VS Code shows the current Python interpreter in the bottom status bar (bottom right). Click on it to:

- See which interpreter/venv is active
- Switch to a different interpreter
- Select a virtual environment

**Manually deactivating (optional):**

If you want to manually deactivate the virtual environment, type `deactivate` in the same terminal where you activated it and press Enter. This works the same on all operating systems.

## Pycom Device Setup

1. Connect your device via USB to your computer
2. While in your project folder, look for the Pymakr panel in the sidebar
3. Click "List all devices"
4. Your device should appear - click "Connect"
5. Click "Sync project to device" in the Pymakr panel
6. Press the reset button on your device


## Troubleshooting

**Pymakr commands not working**

- Make sure Node.js is installed and restart VS Code
- Try uninstalling and reinstalling the Pymakr extension
- Check View → Output → Pymakr for error messages

**Device not detected**

- Try a different USB cable (some are charge-only)
- Try a different USB port
- Check Device Manager (Windows) or run `ls /dev/ttyUSB*` (Linux/macOS)
